Maran bashara is alir senior political
analyst you're joining us um by Skype
from Paris Maran what do you think about
this statement about where it appears to
leave us right
now look although the statement is
General it's not expected to be anymore
because the negotiations have not ended
but the sense of optimism does reflect a
certain reality uh over the last two
days where they are Bing gaps um and
it's not just the last two days uh the
framework agreement that was proposed in
May was worked on all the way through
July 2nd when it last left by Hamas
saying look we agreed to this we also
made some concessions now Israel has to
agree to it since July 2nd they made
some progress but now the past two days
they were able to bridge the gap on most
of the issues where also the Israelis
seems to have made some concessions on
the issue of the ratio between hostages
and
detes between Israelis and Palestinians
that is held by Israel and
Hamas three points seems to be uh left
three contentious Point important point
one that has to do with the Philadelphia
Corridor that Natan insists that the
Israeli Army wants to maintain some form
of presence there is the
narim uh base or line that's right in
the middle of Gaza smack in the Middle
where also Nan wanteded to maintain in
order to control the movement of the
population from the north back to the
south from the south back to the north
meaning people want to go back to their
homes Netanyahu doesn't want them to he
want only those over 65 or something and
the third Point had to do with Rafa who
will be in charge of the crossing
meaning in charge of all these goods are
be going to be coming in after a
ceasefire is
signed seems that that the Americans uh
have taken it upon themselves to deal
with Netanyahu and Israel on the
question of narim and the movement of
population and why Israel really must
withdraw its uh its soldiers from the
middle of Gaza when it comes to uh
Philadelphia this is more of an issue
that concerns Egypt because you know
Egypt is the country to the South with a
peace agreement with Israel so it's
going to be handled with Israel and isra
with the Egypt and the Israeli military
as to the nature if any at all Hamas
rejects the presence of any Israeli uh
presence in the Philadelphia C and as
far as the RAF Crossing that remains to
be a bit of an
enigma the Israelis don't want a PA a
Palestinian Authority presence they
certainly don't want the hamash presence
it remains to be seen whether the
Palestinians can work out some some some
sort of a formula in the coming days
whereby it'll be Pro uh provential
provisional and
workable but Marwan these are so these
are all
important um what the mediators are
referring to as details right important
details within a possible framework
agreement but I'm still thinking about
the main part of this agreement which is
it's supposed to end the war and until
recently you were still hearing from
Benjamin Netanyahu this this war will
not end until we've totally um defeated
Hamas we've WIP them out remove them
from the Gaza Strip and on the other
hand you still heard from Hamas uh we're
not signing a deal that doesn't totally
end the war so that's you know that's
the big that's the really huge thing
that they still seem to have no
agreement on until
recently yes absolutely but listen just
to so so that you and I can be on the
same page and it's very important for me
that you and I are on the same page
these are not details right sure I mean
whether there is or there isn't Israeli
military presence in the middle of Gaza
or in the South part of Gaza or in the
RAF Crossing this is by definition
whether the war continues or the
occupation continues today as it has the
last 10 months but the root causes for
the war continue so it's a very
important what's going to happen with
the Israeli military presence the
details are more into how many what day
will be released and then how many will
be released in the second week and what
happens in terms of Israeli redeployment
during that time this these are the
details these are the implementation
details now I agree with you about the
fact that even if this is signed does
this really mean that it's all um uh you
know Rejoice about peace and stability
absolutely not I have always been saying
that Israel has got got away with
genocide and I don't think the traces of
genocide are going to disappear
overnight and I don't think the Israelis
are going to leave Gaza overnight and I
don't think the Israelis are going to
try to avoid or miss a chance to say
assassinate sunir next week when there
is a ceasefire right so the the the
chances for Reckless Behavior and the
chances for this thing to be torpedoed
and the chances for Israel to walk away
after the first phase when most of its
captives are released are very high the
Americans have given the guarantees
that to the Palestinians and to the
mediators that they will work with the
Israelis so as to not relaunch the war
but they seem to have also given
guarantees to Netanyahu that if he must
relaunch the war then they're not going
to stand in his way which means that a
lot of these eventualities are left in
the hands of the Americans which means
the Americans are the sponsor as the
mediator and the partner of Israel will
be uh directly implicated in the
implementation of this three-phased
agreements until it's fully
implemented Al senior political analyst
Marwan Bashar thank you very much
Maran make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al